The farm for editing an article now includes available categories and any categories that the article
is already related to and are shown already selected in the farm.
Now we need to handle these additional fields when the farm is submitted and save them to the database.
When the form is submitted the article properties are set from the farm inputs.
The title the content and so on.
Let's add the category I.D. to this in the form the category check boxes are named category.
And this is an array.
Let's get these values in the same way.
We're getting the other inputs.
Then dump this value out and exert the script so we can see what's coming from the farm.
If I select some categories and submit the form we get an array containing the I.D. of the categories
I selected.
If I don't select any However we get an error.
This is because on selected check boxes aren't included in the posted data.
When a form is submitted so this value doesn't exist in the post array.
To fix this.
We can use the null coalesce operator.
We saw earlier.
To set this to an empty array.
If this element doesn't exist in the post array.
Now if I submit the farm without selecting any categories there's no error and we get an empty array.
Putting these selected categories in this array when the farm is submitted will also correctly redisplay
the selected categories in the farm.
If an error occurs and the farm is re displayed before we continue let's delete these two lines.
Next the article Ricardos updated by calling the update method.
Instead of updating the categories in here let's add a new method to do that.
And will call it set.
Categories will pass in the database connection and an array of category I.D. as parameters.
The array of category I.D. could be empty so will check for that which we can do like this as an empty
array is the boolean equivalent of false.
Then we need to insert Ricardos into the join table.
Will use this esky well which has place holders for the article idea and the category idae.
We've got the article either 0 as this is a method We'll be calling on an article object.
So instead of binding of value to this place holder we can simply insert the idea of the current article
object instead.
We do need to bind the category and ideas using place holders though as these data are coming from a
farm.
Next let's prepare the statement then as we have an array of categories I.D. will add a far each loop
to process each one.
Inside the loop will bind the value of each idae to the category I.D. place holder and then execute
the statement with a prepared statement.
You only need to prepare it once then you can execute it multiple times with different values for the
bound parameters.
Let's try calling this method after the article has been updated.
Passing in the category I.D. from the farm.
This is the edit article farm for the article with I.D. of 12.
This currently has no related categories.
Which means that there are no red cards in the article category table where the article E is equal to
12.
If I select a couple of categories and submit the farm.
New red cards have been inserted into the table file this article and that was categories.
If we edit the article again those categories are preselected in the form as expected.
Let's try adding another category.
This time when I submit the farm we get an error saying we have a duplicate primary key value.
This is because the primary key on this table is a unique index on the article I.D. and the category
Heidi.
So there can be only one rijkaard containing a specific article either a and a specific category i.e.
in this table.
If we try to insert a duplicate rijkaard we get the error.
We just saw.
This error message has an associated error code in this case 23 thousand.
This corresponds to a duplicate key error.
So one way to fix this would be to catch the Pedia exception that's thrown and check for this error
code.
If this error code occurs we would just ignore it and try and insert the next rijkaard.
An alternative way to fix this would be to use the insert ignore statement by adding the ignore keyword
to an insert statement.
Errors are ignored and the inserts can continue.
You have to be careful with this as all errors are ignored not just duplicate key ones but with a simple
join table like this other insert errors are unlikely so it's safe to use.
In this case.
So let's add the ignore key word to the insert statement in the set categories method.
Now if we add a category and submit the farm no error occurs.
And in the database a new record has been added alongside the existing ones.